An endangered species is a type of organism that is threatened by extinction.

Extinction is the termination of a kind of organism or of a group of kinds, usually a species

The Cretaceous is defined as the period between 145.5 and 65.5 million years ago,

Debris is pieces from something that has been destroyed or pieces of rubbish or unwanted material that are spread around

The IUCN has developed a red list which contains the name of species that are need in special and immediate care

the main categories that redlist consist of are species that are extinct, species that are extinct in wild, critically endangered species, endangered species, vulnerable species and ones that are at lower risk

Let me now explain what each category means 
Extinct species are the ones that have been completely wiped out of the world.Those species that do not exist anywhere in the world anymore..


Vulnerable species are those that still face potential danger of extinction but are classified in lower risk than those in endangered. Those species that face the threat of extinction in the future, but not as severely as the endangered and critically endangered species.


Endangered species are those animals that face very high risk of extinction. Those species that face the threat of extinction in the near future.

Critically endangered means the particular species almost extinct with the number of individuals of species in wild dropping to very low number. Those species that have almost become extinct with very few individuals left in the world.

Extinct in the wild The species that are extinct in the wild are the species which is alive only in the captivity ie., in zoos and animal parks. Those species that exist only in captivity, and not in the wild

Extinct species are the ones that have been completely wiped out of the world. Those species that do not exist anywhere in the world anymore.


 With the rise in ocean levels, tigers are losing habitat due to coastal erosion in areas such as Sunderbans. Rising sea levels claim more of their habitat, and sea water enters rivers causing freshwater to become saline. These are the reasons the tiger is moving northward and facing a shrinking natural habitat

Scientists used to find hundreds of toads gathered to breed in small pools in the rainy season, but they suddenly became very rare - only ten were found in 1988, and only one was found a year later. No more golden toads have been seen since.No-one really understands what happened to the toads, although it's almost certainly the result of human activity. It's possible that their habitat was affected by deforestation, or by climate change caused by people burning fossil fuels.
